README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
    fzf.fish
</h1>

A plugin that integrates [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) into your [fish](http://fishshell.com) workflow. Comes with handy functions&mdash;each with its own mnemonic key binding&mdash;that use fzf to

> Search for a **file or folder** in the current directory - `Ctrl+f` (f for file)

![file search](/images/file_search.png)

> Search for a **commit** in the current git repository's log - `Ctrl+Alt+l` (l for log, Alt to prevent overriding clear screen)

![git log search](/images/git_log_search.png)

> Search for a **command** from command history - `Ctrl+r` (r for reverse-i-search)

![command history search](/images/command_history_search.png)

> Search for a **shell variable** (both local and exported) - `Ctrl+v` (v for variable)

![shell variables search](/images/shell_variables_search.png)

## Installation
With [fisher](https://github.com/jorgebucaran/fisher)
```
fisher add patrickf3139/fzf.fish
```

Or with [Oh My Fish](https://github.com/oh-my-fish/oh-my-fish)
```fish
omf install https://github.com/patrickf3139/fzf.fish
```

In addition to this plugin, you will also need to install
- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf), the command-line fuzzy finder that powers this plugin; and
- [fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd), a much faster and friendlier alternative to the antiquated `find` command and is used for the file search feature.

If you are on Mac, I recommend installing these two CLI tools using [brew](https://brew.sh/).

## Configuration
### Using custom key bindings
Each function is assigned mnemonic key bindings by default (see screenshots above) in [conf.d/fzf.fish](conf.d/fzf.fish). However, if you would like to customize them, you can prevent the default key bindings from executing by setting `fzf_fish_custom_key bindings` as a [universal variable](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/#more-on-universal-variables). You can do this by running
```fish
set --universal fzf_fish_custom_key bindings
```
Do not try to set `fzf_fish_custom_key bindings` in your `config.fish` because `conf.d/fzf.fish` is sourced first on shell startup and so will not see it. Once it is set, you can set up your own key bindings.

### Fzf default options
fzf supports setting default options via the [FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf#environment-variables) environment variable. If it is set, fzf will implicitly prepend its value to the options passed in on every execution, scripted or interactive.

To make fzf's interface friendlier, `fzf.fish` takes the liberty of setting a sane `FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS` if it is not already set. See [conf.d/fzf.fish](conf.d/fzf.fish) for more details. This has the side effect of affecting fzf even outside of this plugin. If you would like to remove this side effect or just want to customize fzf's default options, then set your own `FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS` universal variable. For example:
```fish
set --universal --export FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS --height 50% --margin 1
```
Alternatively, you can override it in your `config.fish` by adding in something like this:
```fish
set --export FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS --height 50% --margin 1
```

## Prior art
### jethrokuan/fzf
[jethrokuan/fzf](https://github.com/jethrokuan/fzf) is another fzf plugin that provides similar features and is prevalent in the fish community (470+ stargazers and 30 contributors, including me). In fact, I borrowed from it some ideas when creating this plugin&mdash;thank you Jethro!

So why *another* fzf plugin? While contributing to `jethrokuan/fzf`, I was discouraged by the complexity and inefficiency of the code that resulted from feature cruft (e.g. it provides multiple ways to action on files (find, cd, and open) rather than relying on the user to action the files themselves using the command line) and poor design decisions (e.g. the Tmux support, implemented using a variable command, would have been better done using an alias). Moreover, Jethro seemed to have lost interest in his plugin (he later confirmed to me that he stopped using fish). Wanting a sharper tool and to give back to the community, I decided to write my own plugin.

After much work, `fzf.fish` now implements most of the same features but is faster, easier to maintain, and more [Unix-y](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy). It also includes two new features: using fzf to search git log and to browse shell variables. However, I chose not to implement Tmux support, because users can easily add support externally themselves; and tab completion, because even `jethrokuan/fzf`'s implementation of it is buggy and difficult to maintain as evidenced by the many [issues reported about it](https://github.com/jethrokuan/fzf/issues?q=is%3Aissue+tab).

**TLDR:** choose `fzf.fish` over [jethrokuan/fzf](https://github.com/jethrokuan/fzf) if you want
- more efficient, faster code
- to run code that is easier to debug in case you encounter issues
- a tool built on [Unix philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy)
- a plugin that is more likely to attract future contributors because it is more maintainable
- a plugin that will be more frequently updated by its author (Jethro no longer uses fish)
- fzf integration for searching git log
- fzf integration for browsing shell variables

and you don't mind
- having to integrate fzf with Tmux yourself, which is easy to do
- not having buggy fzf tab completion

### Fzf's out-of-the-box fish extension
Fzf optionally comes with its [own fish extension](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/blob/master/shell/key-bindings.fish). It is substantial but `fzf.fish` has several advantages over it. `fzf.fish`:
- has functionality for searching git log
- has functionality for browsing shell variables
- is easier to read, maintain, and contribute to
- includes timestamps when searching command history
- colorizes files when searching for files
- has configurable key bindings
- [autoloads](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/tutorial.html#autoloading-functions) its functions for faster shell startup
- will likely be more frequently updated

Commit message:

Preview files with ls and bat (#18)
If the file is a directory, ls it. If the file is a regular file, bat it. Otherwise, explain that such files cannot be previewed.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
    fzf.fish
</h1>

A plugin that integrates [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) into your [fish](http://fishshell.com) workflow. Comes with handy functions&mdash;each with its own mnemonic key binding&mdash;that use fzf to

> Search for a **file or folder** in the current directory - `Ctrl+f` (f for file)

![file search](/images/file_search.png)

> Search for a **commit** in the current git repository's log - `Ctrl+Alt+l` (l for log, Alt to prevent overriding clear screen)

![git log search](/images/git_log_search.png)

> Search for a **command** from command history - `Ctrl+r` (r for reverse-i-search)

![command history search](/images/command_history_search.png)

> Search for a **shell variable** (both local and exported) - `Ctrl+v` (v for variable)

![shell variables search](/images/shell_variables_search.png)

## Installation
With [fisher](https://github.com/jorgebucaran/fisher)
```
fisher add patrickf3139/fzf.fish
```

Or with [Oh My Fish](https://github.com/oh-my-fish/oh-my-fish)
```fish
omf install https://github.com/patrickf3139/fzf.fish
```

In addition to this plugin, you will also need to install
- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf), the command-line fuzzy finder that powers this plugin;
- [fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd), a much faster and friendlier alternative to the antiquated `find` command is used for the file search feature; and
- [bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat), a smarter `cat` with syntax highlighting used to preview files.

If you are on Mac, I recommend installing these two CLI tools using [brew](https://brew.sh/).

## Configuration
### Using custom key bindings
Each function is assigned mnemonic key bindings by default (see screenshots above) in [conf.d/fzf.fish](conf.d/fzf.fish). However, if you would like to customize them, you can prevent the default key bindings from executing by setting `fzf_fish_custom_key bindings` as a [universal variable](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/#more-on-universal-variables). You can do this by running
```fish
set --universal fzf_fish_custom_key bindings
```
Do not try to set `fzf_fish_custom_key bindings` in your `config.fish` because `conf.d/fzf.fish` is sourced first on shell startup and so will not see it. Once it is set, you can set up your own key bindings.

### Fzf default options
fzf supports setting default options via the [FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf#environment-variables) environment variable. If it is set, fzf will implicitly prepend its value to the options passed in on every execution, scripted or interactive.

To make fzf's interface friendlier, `fzf.fish` takes the liberty of setting a sane `FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS` if it is not already set. See [conf.d/fzf.fish](conf.d/fzf.fish) for more details. This has the side effect of affecting fzf even outside of this plugin. If you would like to remove this side effect or just want to customize fzf's default options, then set your own `FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS` universal variable. For example:
```fish
set --universal --export FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS --height 50% --margin 1
```
Alternatively, you can override it in your `config.fish` by adding in something like this:
```fish
set --export FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS --height 50% --margin 1
```

## Prior art
### jethrokuan/fzf
[jethrokuan/fzf](https://github.com/jethrokuan/fzf) is another fzf plugin that provides similar features and is prevalent in the fish community (470+ stargazers and 30 contributors, including me). In fact, I borrowed from it some ideas when creating this plugin&mdash;thank you Jethro!

So why *another* fzf plugin? While contributing to `jethrokuan/fzf`, I was discouraged by the complexity and inefficiency of the code that resulted from feature cruft (e.g. it provides multiple ways to action on files (find, cd, and open) rather than relying on the user to action the files themselves using the command line) and poor design decisions (e.g. the Tmux support, implemented using a variable command, would have been better done using an alias). Moreover, Jethro seemed to have lost interest in his plugin (he later confirmed to me that he stopped using fish). Wanting a sharper tool and to give back to the community, I decided to write my own plugin.

After much work, `fzf.fish` now implements most of the same features but is faster, easier to maintain, and more [Unix-y](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy). It also includes two new features: using fzf to search git log and to browse shell variables. However, I chose not to implement Tmux support, because users can easily add support externally themselves; and tab completion, because even `jethrokuan/fzf`'s implementation of it is buggy and difficult to maintain as evidenced by the many [issues reported about it](https://github.com/jethrokuan/fzf/issues?q=is%3Aissue+tab).

**TLDR:** choose `fzf.fish` over [jethrokuan/fzf](https://github.com/jethrokuan/fzf) if you want
- more efficient, faster code
- to run code that is easier to debug in case you encounter issues
- a tool built on [Unix philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy)
- a plugin that is more likely to attract future contributors because it is more maintainable
- a plugin that will be more frequently updated by its author (Jethro no longer uses fish)
- fzf integration for searching git log
- fzf integration for browsing shell variables

and you don't mind
- having to integrate fzf with Tmux yourself, which is easy to do
- not having buggy fzf tab completion

### Fzf's out-of-the-box fish extension
Fzf optionally comes with its [own fish extension](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/blob/master/shell/key-bindings.fish). It is substantial but `fzf.fish` has several advantages over it. `fzf.fish`:
- has functionality for searching git log
- has functionality for browsing shell variables
- is easier to read, maintain, and contribute to
- includes timestamps when searching command history
- colorizes files when searching for files
- has configurable key bindings
- [autoloads](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/tutorial.html#autoloading-functions) its functions for faster shell startup
- will likely be more frequently updated
