.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: 🐛 Bug report
about: Something isn't working as expected 🤔.
title: ""
labels: ""
assignees: ""
---

## Before proceeding...

- [ ] My CLIs meet the [minimum version requirements](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish#installation)
- [ ] I have read through the [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish/wiki/Troubleshooting)
- [ ] If I updated fzf.fish for the first time in over 6 months, I read the [migration guides](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish/wiki/Migration-Guides) to make sure I'm caught up

## Describe the bug

If applicable, include screenshots here.

## Steps to reproduce

## Environment

Versions installed:

- Fish: [e.g. 3.3.1, check using `$version` instead of `fish --version`]
- fzf.fish: [e.g. 7.0, [how to check this](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish/wiki/Cookbook#how-can-i-check-which-version-of-fzffish-im-on)]
- terminal: [e.g. iTerm]
- OS: [e.g. macOS 11.4]

Which, if any, [configuration variables](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish#configuration) such as `fzf_preview_file_cmd` are set?

## Additional context

Commit message:

Suggest checking recent releases in case bug is actually new feature

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: 🐛 Bug report
about: Something isn't working as expected 🤔.
title: ""
labels: ""
assignees: ""
---

## Before proceeding...

- [ ] My CLIs meet the [minimum version requirements](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish#installation)
- [ ] I read through the [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish/wiki/Troubleshooting)
- [ ] If I updated fzf.fish for the first time in over 6 months, I read the [migration guides](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish/wiki/Migration-Guides) to make sure I'm caught up
- [ ] I read through the recent [releases](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish/releases) to make sure this is not simply a new feature

## Describe the bug

If applicable, include screenshots here.

## Steps to reproduce

## Environment

Versions installed:

- Fish: [e.g. 3.3.1, check using `$version` instead of `fish --version`]
- fzf.fish: [e.g. 7.0, [how to check this](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish/wiki/Cookbook#how-can-i-check-which-version-of-fzffish-im-on)]
- terminal: [e.g. iTerm]
- OS: [e.g. macOS 11.4]

Which, if any, [configuration variables](https://github.com/PatrickF1/fzf.fish#configuration) such as `fzf_preview_file_cmd` are set?

## Additional context
